#summary One-sentence summary of this page.
#labels Gettingstart,Usage
= Installing the library =
 * The latest release is always available at the [http://code.google.com/p/any23/downloads/list download directory].
 Download either the "*.zip" or "*.tar.gz" file and decompress the archive.
 * For the latest snapshot please download the code from the [http://code.google.com/p/any23/source/checkout svn code repository] and build the library with the following steps:
  # SVN checkout 
  {{{ svn checkout http://any23.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/library any23-read-only }}} 
  # Compile (Required library: [http://ant.apache.org/ Apache ant])
  {{{ cd any23-read-only/ ; ant clean; ant jar }}}
 This command compiles the source code and generate the library in the "_lib/_" folder.
  # Build package
  {{{ ant dist }}}
 This command creates the "zip" and "tar.gz" archive. 
  
= Using Any23 =
If you want to use any23 as a command line tool, please use the provided shell scripts "any23" and "rover(.bat)" for linux (Windows) in the "root" folder of any23.
Please note, that the main script to run any23 is the "*rover(.bat)*" script.
The "any23" command line tool also provides you to access testing, debugging and analysing utilities (we do not provide a documentation for this at the moment).

= Examples =
We believe that any23 provides you and easy to use command line interface with self explaining optional parameters.

 * Overview
 {{{
#> sh rover
   usage: Rover [file|url] [OPTIONS]
   where OPTIONS are:
   -e <arg>            comma-separated list of extractors, e.g.                  
                       rdf-xml,rdf-turtle
   -f,--format <arg>   (turtle (default), ntriples, rdfxml,quad)
   -I <arg>            (zip, warc)
   -l,--log <arg>      logging, please specify a file
   -o,--output <arg>   ouput file (defaults to stdout)
   -s,--stats          print out statistics of Any23
   -t,--notrivial      filter trivial statements
   -v,--verbose        show progress and debug information
 }}}
  Please note, that the "*turtle*" is the *default output format*.
 * *Simple* usage 
  # Extract meta information from Web documents: *{{{#> sh rover <URL>}}}*
 {{{
e.g.: #> sh rover http://yourdomain/yourfile
 }}}
  # Extract meta information from local files *{{{#> sh rover <PATH_TO_FILE>}}}*
 {{{
e.g.: #>sh rover /home/user/myFoaf.rdf
 }}}
 * Specify the *output format*, use option "*-f*" or "*--format*".
  # TURTLE - default configuration, no need for specific flag
 {{{
#> sh rover foaf.rdf 
 }}}
  # RDFXML - *-f rdfxml*
 {{{
#> sh rover -f rdfxml foaf.rdf
 }}}
  # N3 - *-f ntriples*
 {{{
#> sh rover -f ntriples foaf.rdf
 }}}
  # Quad - *-f quad* (please see further information about the "[http://challenge.semanticweb.org/ quad]" format)
 {{{
#> sh rover -f quad foaf.rdf
 }}}

 * Process *archives*: Use the "*-I*" option
 Any23 supports the process of archives. Currently we only support *Zip* or *WARC* archives.  
  # Process a zip archive
 {{{
#>sh rover -I zip myArchive.zip
 }}}
  # Process a WARC archive
 {{{
#>sh rover -I warc myArchive.warc
#>sh rover -I warc myArchive.warc*.gz*
 }}}
 * *Filtering* trivial statements
 By default, any23 will extract HTML/head meta information, such as links to CSS stylesheets or meta information like the author or the software used to create the html. Hence, if the user is only interested in the structured content from the HTML/body tag we offer a filter functionality, activated by the "*-t*" command line argument.
 {{{
#>sh rover -t foaf.rdf
}}}